Read me
The purpose of the program is to analysis smFISH Images in planarians (Schmidtea Mediterranea) and other whole-mount fixed tissues
This program fits analysis of very large Tiff files (Over 2GB) with a high memory or on remote ssh computer.
In general, for every 1GB of file to be analyzed, around 16GB of memory is needed.
This program package on python is created by Elias Guan in 2022 at Northwestern University, Christian Petersen Lab.
This file will introduce how the program functions and how to run it.
For the developmental blog, please refer to the development blog in the same folder
The Structure of this whole program is based on Package Bigfish/FISHquant. Their Official Website is https://fish-quant.github.io/
To be compatible with Large file analysis, I used a package on python named tifffile. https://pypi.org/project/tifffile/
Our collection of Image is on Leica Stellaris patform, and I use LASX, the Leica software to export Image.
All the input Images should be 8bit tiff file, with separated channels. i.e Single channel Images, but Z stack is allowed.

General Instruction:
    This program is aimed to analyse the smFISH data.
    The pipeline is simply: Filter background, Gaussian blur, apply laplacian, find local maximum, and find edges.
    Mathmatically, the Lapacian of Gaussian(LoG) make all backgrounds as negative points, and edges are defined by where the function goes from negative to positive or vice versa.



Program structure:
Metadata_readin:
Read metadata and sort files from LASX output. This part is optional, if you are using other platform of image collection, please ignore.
Spot_detection
This is the core part of spot detection.
Parameter input(change in main.py):
    minimal_distance: The minimal distance between two spots in (z,x,y)
    Kernel_size: The kernel size used for Gaussian Bluring of the Image, in (z,x,y). Suggested to start from 1.3, up to 2.0.  Details can be found here: DOI: 10.1016/S0076-6879(10)72004-8
    resolution: The pixel size on (z,x,y). Unit is nanometer. Good collection should be less than 100nm on xy, and 200nm on z. This can be found on metadata readin or LASX software of the original Image. In LASX it is called dimension.
    spot_size: A typical size of your spots on (z,x,y). unit is nanometer. Usually, use 400-800 nm for x and y, around 20-50% larger on z.
    Greeks: Defines clusters. see main.py for more detail.
    Background_filter: A value to filter background. Use it when you are doing images in tissue, and you have a relative high background. Set to 0 if you dont want it.
    declustering_parameters: Used for declustering. detailed explaination in the file
Spot_intensity_extraction
